<pre>
PIP: 0000
Title: PIP Template
Author: CryptoGuard
Status: Active
Created: 2018-01-21
</pre>

==Abstract==

Describe the proposal in a short paragraph. Explain what is the objective and what will the end result look like. The proposal should be worded in a concise fashion and constitute a brief overview of the project.

==Scope==
Describe in great details the entire scope of the project. This is the extension of the description section and is meant to detail explain in great details what your proposal consists of. All the information related to your proposal should be written here,as well as each set of deliverables (what exactly needs to be delivered by whoever decides to work on the proposal). 

==Milestones==
- Objective 1

- Objective 2

- Objective 3

==Timeframe==
Enter the estimated time of POP completion in minutes, hours or days depending on the situation

==Requirements==
- UI design - Experience with references to prior work. **(example)**

- UI coding - Familiarity with C#, Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF) and XAML. Experience with references to prior work. **(example)**

==Estimated Work==
Write the estimated number of work hours this proposal is going to require

==Proposal==
Proposals should include:

1. Requirement #1

2. Requirement #2

3. Requirement #3

4. etc

==Milestones==
Partial payments shall be made at the following milestones:

===Deliverable 1===

1. Milestone 1 (10%)

2. Milestone 2 (15%)

3. Milestone 3 (25%)

===Deliverable 2===

1. Milestone 1 (10%)

2. Milestone 2 (10%)

3. Milestone 3 (30%) 

==PIP Completion Reward==
Base Reward: 500 PARTs (paid gradually per milestone reached)
